PH413 Introduction to Computational Physics : Homework 1 Problems
Seungwoong Ha∗
Ph413TA, Complex Systems and Statistical Physics Lab,
Department of Physics, KAIST, Daejeon, Korea
Hawoong Jeong†
Department of Physics, KAIST, Daejeon, Korea
(Dated: March 30, 2022)
I.
PROBLEM 1. ROUND-OFF ERRORS AND
COMPUTER ARITHMETIC
Many non-polynomial functions involves sum of higher
order sums. In this example, you will compare two different sum for expression for the same values.
Taylor polynomial of degree n for f (x) = ex is
PThe
n
i
i=0 (x /i!). Use the Taylor polynomial of degree of n
to find an approximation to e−5 by each of the following
methods.
n
X
(−5)i
i=0
i!
(1)
2. Formula 2 : Using inverse value
e−5 =
1
1
≈ Pn 5i
5
e
i=0 i!
(2)
Since both formulae absolutely converges, infinite sum
of both formula will indicate the same value. However,
due to finite amount of number that digits actually store,
they have different degree of error.
QUESTIONS
1. Draw absolute error (absolute value of the error)
for degree n, for both methods.
2. Which formula, equation 1 and 2, is closer to exact
value? Explain why.
II.
k=1
2. Formula 2 : Vacca (1910), Gerst (1969)
γn =
n
X
(−1)
k floor(log2 k)
k=1
k
PROBLEM 2. ALGORITHMS AND
CONVERGENCE
Euler-Mascheroni constant γ ≈ 0.5772156649015... appears in many equations, which involves approximation
of harmonic sum to logarithmic function. In this example, you will use two formulae to calculate the constant.
Compare the error of each sequence to exact constannumber |γn − γ∞ (= γ)| = K|βn |. In nearly every situation we use
1
(5)
βn = p
n
for some number p. This number is often called “The
degree of error”. Calculate the degree of each formula.
QUESTIONS
1. Plot sequence of absolute error for each formula.
2. Calculate the degree of error for each formula.
III. PROBLEM 3. GENERATING RANDOM
NUMBER WITH POWER LAW DISTRIBUTION
Most of random numbers in ideal space involves well behaving distributions such as Poissonian distribution in
probabilistic events, or Gaussian random number related
to errors or accumulated variables. On the other hand,
a random number with power law distribution, such as
P (x) ∼ x−α in x ∈ [xmin , ∞), is frequently used in various randomness involving long-term correlations, financial or real world noises.
QUESTIONS
1. Derive function y = f (x) that obeys output distribution as given power law distribution:
y = f (x)
∗ skyround2002@gmail.com
† hjeong@kaist.edu
(4)
Where floor function means integer part of a real
number.
1. Formula 1 : Direct expansion
e−5 ≈
1. Formula 1 : Definition of Euler-Mascheroni constant
!
n
X
1
γn =
− ln n
(3)
k
P (y) = Ay −α , y ∈ [2, ∞)
P (x) = 1, x ∈ (0, 1]2
Note that, smallest possible value for random variable y is 2.
2. Generate random numbers with derived distribution function, and check the produced random
numbers obey power-law distribution by drawing
log-log plot. Your exponent in resulting distribution has to match with your original given α There
are some subtle points to measure exact power-law
exponent in a distribution. If you suggest any, additional point will be given.
IV.
2. Calculate the distance R(t) of random walker from
the origin at each time step, and draw t vs. R(t)
curve and show that R(t) ∼ t1/2 , i.e. in log-log plot
slope of the curve being 1/2. (You may average over
many simulations to get nice result.)
3. [for extra point] Assume that random walker
cannot visit the same point again, i.e. trace of the
random walker cannot intersect ifself. (This is
called Self-Avoiding Walk : SAW) Do the same job
above for Self-Avoiding Walk, and find the diffusion dimension dw such that R(t) ∼ t1/dw . Discuss
the result why SAW have the same or different dimension. Please note that it may not be easy to
let random walker complete walk steps up to 1000
steps.
PROBLEM 4. TRAJECTORY OF A
RANDOM WALK
V.
Consider 2-dimensional random walk on square lattice.
Random walker can move up, down, left, right at each
time step with equal probability.
QUESTIONS
1. Draw the trajectory of your random walker who
starts at the origin after 1000 steps. You may
use any graphing tools to represent many random
walker’s trails.
NOTES
This homework is due April.
20th (Sun),
23:59:59 P.M.. Write your report about answers including diagrams and discussions. Please submit your
report and codes. Your codes could be in either python
file (.py) or Jupyter notebook file (.ipynb). Please gather
your code into one zip file and upload it along with your
PDF report. Please write your report via LATEX with
graphs drawn with pyplot. If you have any questions
about this homework, use question board in KLMS or
personally e-mail to TA.
