PH413 Introduction to Computational Physics : Homework 2 Problems
Seungwoong Ha
Ph413TA, Complex Systems and Statistical Physics Lab,
Department of Physics, KAIST, Daejeon, Korea
Hawoong Jeong
Department of Physics, KAIST, Daejeon, Korea
(Dated: April 20, 2022)
I.
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATION
Solve the following differential equation in x = [0 : 5]
dy
= t(1 − y 2 )
dt
(1)
from initial condition y(0) = −0.5, with following methods.
• Euler method
2. Using Newton’s method, find the basin of attraction in each solution of z 3 = 1 in complex plane.
Set the range as |z| < 1.5, and use the appropriate
resolution (e.g. 640 × 640), and mark the resulting solution as different color or marker. If you
are familiar to pm3d map, it is encouraged to draw
the geometry as heat map with color as basin, and
iteration number as brightness.
3. Calculate the fractal dimension of a single basin
of attraction. You may measure the dimension of
either boundary or area or the solution basin, but
the value will differ.
• 4th order Runge-Kutta method (RK4)
• Any other method you can find elsewhere
With given methods above, compare your results with
exact solution and calculate the error.
III.
PROBLEM. ROESSLER’S ATTRACTOR
AND PERIOD BIFURCATION
QUESTIONS
1. Plot the error function e(t) = y(t) − ynumeric (t) for
some dt for each methods.
2. Compare your accumulated error with in various
step size to find the order of each numerical integration algorithms.
II.
Based on equillibrium dynamics on chemical reaction,
Roessler designed a non-linear continuous-time dynamical system to study a chaotic behavior(1976). The equation defining the Roessler system are given as follows:
dx
= −y − z
dt
dy
= x + ay
dt
dz
= b + z (x − c)
dt
SOLUTION OF EQUATION AND BASIN OF
ATTRACTION
In this problem, you will find solution of a equation
by Newton’s method. Newton’s method provides faster
convergence than statistical inference methods. The solution is stable for locally monotonic function.
QUESTIONS
1. Use Newton’s method to solve the equation
0=
1 1 2
1
+ x − x sin x − cos 2x
2 4
2
(2)
with x0 = π2 . Iterate using Newton’s method until
an accuracy of 10−5 is obtained. Explain why the
result seems unusual for Newton’s method. Also,
solve the equation with x0 = 5π and x0 = 10π.
∗ skyround2002@gmail.com
† hjeong@kaist.edu
(3)
(4)
(5)
QUESTIONS
1. Roessler studied the chaotic attractor with a = 0.2,
b = 0.2 with varying c. For fixed constants a, b
and c, trajectory in each system will converge to
limited-cycle quasiperiodic motion. While increasing c, you will have different curves. Draw several
kinds of those limit cycles.
2. Obtain a series of local maximum value of y in each
quasiperiod. Let yi be the local maximum value in
ith quasiperiod, plot the relation of yi and yi+1 .
3. Plot all the local maximum y values yi for c.
Tips : This problem is using numerical integration, therefore you must take care of the numerical errors. Also, the
periodic motion is well defined on stable limit cycle,2
so careful consideration about the initial condition and
relaxation is needed.
IV.
PROBLEM. DIFFUSION-LIMITED
AGGREGATION
Diffusion-limited aggregation(DLA) is the process
which particles with Brownian motion cluster together
and aggregates. Make your own DLA cluster in 2 dimension, square lattice.
QUESTIONS
1. Draw your DLA cluster.
2. Measure the fractal dimension Df of your DLA
cluster.
Bonus Make your DLA in triangular lattice, and repeat
the problem above.
Tips : Larger cluster size will help for better measurement in box counting algorithm. When drawing larger
plot (dimension larger than 400,600 points), use data size
equal to output pixels and use with dots style for faster
drawing.
V.
NOTES
This homework is due SUN May. 15th 23:59:59.
Write your report about answers including diagrams and
discussions. Please submit your report and codes. Your
report should contain discussions about each problem.
Please write your report via LATEXwith graphs drawn
with pyplot. If you have any questions about this homework, use question board in KLMS or personally e-mail
to TA.
