PH413 Introduction to Computational Physics : Homework 3 Problems
Seungwoong Ha∗
Ph413TA, Complex Systems and Statistical Physics Lab,
Department of Physics, KAIST, Daejeon, Korea
Hawoong Jeong†
Department of Physics, KAIST, Daejeon, Korea
(Dated: May 10, 2022)
RANDOM DEPOSITION AND DIFFUSION
MODEL
Random Deposition and Diffusion Model (RDD
Model) describes random surface growth with diffusion.
Compared to random deposition model, actual experi-
mental surface is less rough. Family(1986) introduced
the diffusion where newly arriving particles will likely to
have more stable state by diffusing neighbor sites.
The original model consists of line of L sites, with periodic boundary condition so that columns i and i + L
are equivalent. Only nearest-neighbor diffusion is considered, i.e. a particle dropped in column i sticks to the top
of column, and diffuse to the neighbor column i + 1, i − 1
if the neighbor has smaller height. If neighbor columns
have the same height, one of the neighbor column is randomly chosen.
Width is used as order parameter to describe the surface, which is defined as
In this example, you will generate some “realistic” fractal objects with a set of linear transformation. Suppose a set of linear mapping in a 2-Dimensional plane
, as follows :
Where for each transformation(or, path) i, six coefficients
 are given as constants.
Starting from a initial position (x0 , y0 ), you choose one
of given paths with probability pi to obtain (x1 , y1 ). Iterate the process up to certain order n, and plot each
points (xn , yn ). If you plot enough many points, then a
beautiful structure will appear.
Paths
(1)
and it is known that width has scaling relation as follows.
TABLE I. Example : Gosari
(2)
QUESTIONS
which results
(3)
QUESTIONS
1. Draw a single instance of growing surface.
2. Use your simulation result to obtain the roughness
exponent α and growth exponent β.
Tips : To obtain clear scaling relation, sample number
is important. There are also a way to make this process
simpler to increase the simulation speed.
1. Reproduce the geometry on the figure with given
coefficients.
2. Make your own fractal geometry with your own coefficients.
3. Calculate the fractal dimension with each geometry
with box-counting method.
Hint : to determine the coefficients, you need your
points not to diverge when iterates. What condition in
eigenvalues in transformation matrix is needed to ensure
transformation not to divergent?
III.
∗ skyround2002@gmail.com
† hjeong@kaist.edu
GENERATING FRACTAL WITH
PROBABILISTIC ITERATION
LOCAL STRUCTURE OF WEB PAGES
As we learned in class, web pages also can be expressed
as a network. In this problem, you will perform actual
scale, which leads a general characteristic of distribution
of such numbers.
QUESTIONS
1. With the fact that the random number which obeys
the Benford’s law is not scale-specific, derive Benford’s law.
2. Using actual number data, confirm that the numbers obey the Benford’s law. Note that not all the
set of random numbers obey Benford’s law; you will
have to select appropriate set of number to see the
law.
3. Multiply all the numbers into some constants, and
verify that still the Benford’s law holds.
FIG. 1. Resulting diagram with coefficients given in Table I
web crawling to collect web page links and find its
connection structure.
4. Transform the numbers from Decimal into Octal
and Hexadecimal, and verify that still the Benford’s
law holds. Hint : Each languages support decimal
to Oct/Hex transformation functions.
V.
VERIFICATION OF ZIPF’S LAW
QUESTIONS
1. Starting from any pages you want, obtain a list of
links and parse each page via any method you prefer. (e.g. java URL - Jsoup, Python urllib -
beautifulsoup, Lynx) Iterate until you get enough
number of web pages.
2. Draw the network of web pages, and plot the degree
distribution of the network.
Hints :
1) Because the web pages have so many links, using
closed or limited set of links will be better to observe the
local structure. The sample data I suggest is wikipedia
or similar wikis, without external links.
2) Try not to collect too far : set a maximum depth
(about 3 to 5), and collect the list of links. Note that
Pajek can express graph size less than order of 10000.
Zipf’s law, named after the linguist at Harvard George
Kingsley Zipf (1902-1950), is an observation that frequency of occurrence of some event P (i), as a function of
the rank i when the rank is determined by the above frequency of occurrence, is a power-law function P (i) ∼ i−α
with the exponent close to 1.
The most famous example of Zipf’s law is the frequency of English words. (See ).
Note
that in a count of the top 50 words in 423 TIME
magazine articles (total 245,412 occurrences of words),
“the” ranks as the number one (appearing 15861 times),
“of” as number two (appearing 7239 times), “to” as the
number three (6331 times), etc. satisfies above Zipf’s
Law.
QUESTIONS
IV.
BENFORD’S LAW
Benford’s Law states that if we randomly select a number from a table of physical constants or statistical data,
the probability that the first digit will be a “1” is about
0.301, rather than 0.11(= 1/9) as we might expect if all
digits (1, 2, ..., 9) were equally likely. In general, the law
states that the probability of the first digit being a “d”
is log10 (1 + 1/d).
The Benford’s law is applied for the numbers with
non-dimensionless variable. Those numbers are rep-
resented as different value with different scales, e.g.
length of 1 meter changes to 0.5 meter. However, the
distribution of the first digit must not change for any
1. Find your own example following Zipf’s law, and
draw the rank-frequency diagram of words in a
text to verify Zipf curve. (for example, find one
e-book and measure the frequency distribution of
the words in that book.)
VI.
NOTES
This homework is due SUN May 29th 23:59:59.
Write your report about answers including diagrams and
detailed discussions. Please submit your report and
codes. If you have any questions about this homework,
use question board in KLMS or personally e-mail to TA.
